>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
MARCH 23rd, STILL ANOTHE
SATELLITE IMAGE SHOWS MORE
DEBRIS POSSIBLY CONNECTED TO THE
DISAPPEARANCE OF MALAYSIAN
FLIGHT 370
>>> TWO STATES WITH A LEGA
BATTLE UPHOLDING VOTER I.D. LAW.
WE EXPLORE THE NATIONA
IMPLICATIONS
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT
THE GOVERNOR OF KANSAS IS TRYING
TO GET YOUNG PEOPLE TO COME BACK
TO RURAL AMERICA
>> THIS IS A BEAUTIFUL
COMMUNITY.
WE JUST NEED TO GIVE IT ECONOMIC
ACTIVITY
>> NEXT ON "PBS NEWSHOUR
WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS
>> ANOTHER SATELLITE CAPTURE
IMAGES OF DEBRIS THE SOUTH
INDIAN OCEAN THAT MIGHT BE
CONNECTED TO THE DISAPPEARED
AIRLINER TWO WEEKS AGO
THERE ARE NO DETAILS ON TH
LATEST SIGHTING LOCATIONS.
AUSTRALIA AND CHINA RELEASED
IMAGES OF WHAT COULD BE TH
WRECKAGE OF THE 777.
IN AN AREA 1550 MILES OF PERTH
AUSTRALIA.
THOUGH CONDITIONS IN THE SEARC
AREA ARE SAID TO BE DIFFICULT,
THE PRIME MINISTER VOICE
OPTIMISM THE MYSTERY WILL BE
SOLVED
>> WE HAVE HAD A NUMBER OF VER
CREDIBLE LEADS
WE MIGHT BE ON THE ROAD TO
DISCOVERING WHAT DID HAPPEN TO
THIS THE ILL-FATED AIRCRAFT.
>> A PAIR OF WARNssINGS TODA
THAT RUSSIAN TROOPS ALONG TH
BORDER WITH UKRAINE COULD BE
EYEING OTHER TARGETS
THEY WARNED THE TROOPS WER
READY TO MOVE ON TO WHER
RUSSIAN FORCES ARE ALREADY O
THE GROUND
U.S. ADVISER SAID THE RUSSIA
TROOPS COULD BE PREPARING TO
ENTER UKRAINE AND U.S. ACTIONS
IN UKRAINE WOULD DO LITTLE T
CHANGE THAT.
>> WHEN IT COMES TO MILITARY
SYSTEMS, THE FACTS ARE THESE, IF
THE SYSTEMS WERE TO GO T
UKRAINE THAT IS UNLIKELY T
PREVENT AN INVASION.
>> RUSSIAN'S AMBASSADOR TO THE
EUROPEAN SAID THEY HAVE NO
INTENTION TO MOVE TROOPS T
UKRAINIAN TERRITORIES OUTSIDE OF
CRIMEA
>> NOBODY HAS ANYTHING TO FEAR
FROM RUSSIA.
NOBODY IN THIS WORLD
>> PRO RUSSIAN GROUPS CLASHE
WITH POLICE IN THE CITY.
THE PROTESTERS ARE DEMANDING THE
RETURN TO POWER OF THE OUSTE
PRO-RUSSIAN PRESIDENT.
AND IN KIEV, THOUSANDS O
DEMONSTRATORS MANY WAVIN
UKRAINIAN FLAGS GATHERED I
SUPPORT OF UKRAINIAN YOU KNOWTY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS TRAVELING T
TALK TO KEY ALLIES
THE TALKS ARE LIKELY TO FOCUS ON
UKRAINE AND TENSIONS WIT
RUSSIA
FIGHTER JETS SHOT DOWN A
WARPLANE AFTER IT REPORTEDLY
CROSSED IN TO TURKEY AIR SPACE
A SERIAL MILITARY SPOKESMA
CALLED IT BLATANT AGGRESSION
FORCES LOYAL TO BASHAR AL-ASSA
HAVE BEEN BATTLING REBEL
BETWEEN TURKEY AND SYRIA
>>> THE CHINESE TELECOM AN
INTERNET COMPANY SAYS IT I
LOOKING IN TO REPORTS THE U.S.
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
INFILTRATED ITS COMPUTER AND
TELEPHONE NETWORKS AS PART OF AN
OPERATION.
>>> THERE'S BEEN AN OUTBREAK O
THE EBOLA VIRUS IN THE WES
AFRICAN NATION OF GUINEA AND 5
PEOPLE HAVE DIED
WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION SAYS
THERE HAVE BEEN CASES REPORTED
IN NEIGHBORING SIERRA LEONE.
IT IS CONTAGIOUS AND FATALIT
RATE OF 90%.
IT IS SPREAD FROM HUMANS WIT
CLOSE CONTACT TO ANIMALS
INCLUDING MONKEYS AND FRUI
BATS
IT IS SOUND IN AFRICA AND SUDAN.
>>> A CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF
MOTOR VEHICLES SAYS IT I
INVESTIGATING THE POSSIBILIT
THAT HACKERS STOLE CREDIT CARD
INFORMATION AND OTHER SENSITIV
PERSONAL DATA FROM CONSUMERS WHO
MADE PAYMENTS OF ON-LINE BETWEEN
AUGUST OF LAST YEAR AND THE EN
OF LAST YEAR 2014.
THE AGENCY FOUND NO EVIDENCE O
A SECURITY BREACH BUT IS CONDUCT
CANNING A REVIEW OUT OF AN
ABUNDANCE OF CAUTION
THE CALIFORNIA DMV HANDLES
MILLIONS OF TRANSACTIONS ON-LINE
EACH YEAR.
>>> OFF THE COAST OF TEXAS
CREWS ARE TRYING TO CONTAIN AN
OIL SPILL.
A BARGE BROKE OPEN AFTER
COLLIDING WITH ANOTHER SHIP IN
THE HOUSTON SHIPPING CHANNEL
ONE OF THE BUSIEST SHIPPIN
ROUTES IN THE NATION
IT'S UNCLEAR HOW MUCH OIL HA
SPILLED.
>>> AUTHORITIES IN WASHINGTO
STATE ARE SEARCHING FOR A DOZE
PEOPLE THOUGHT TO BE MISSING
AFTER A MUDSLIDE
THREE PEOPLE WERE KILLED AND
EIGHT INJURED.
THE MUDSLIDE DAMAGED O
DESTROYED AS MANY AS 30 HOMES.
>>> A STORY THIS WEEK IN THE
"NEW YORK TIMES" SUGGESTS THAT
PAKISTAN FAILED TO COOPERATE
WITH AMERICAN EFFORTS TO TRACK
DOWN OSAMA BIN LADEN, EVEN
THOUGH THAT COUNTRY RECEIVES
BILLIONS IN AMERICAN AID
THE REPORT ALLEGES THAT SENIOR
PAKISTANI OFFICIALS KNEW ALL
ABOUT BIN LADEN'S PRESENCE I
THE YEARS BEFORE AMERICA
COMMANDOS RAIDED HIS COMPOUN
AND KILLED HIM
THE DISTRIBUTORS OF TH
NEWSPAPER IN PAKISTAN BLACKED IT
OUT EVEN THOUGH IT WAS SUPPOSE
TO BE DISPLAYED ON THE TOP O
THE PAGE
IT IS ADAPTED BY A BOO
PUBLISHED NEXT MONTH
BECAUSE HER PIECE TODAY IS S
NEWSWORTHY, WE ASKED A SENIO
FELLOW AT THE COUNCIL ON FOREIGN
RELATIONS TO JOIN US TO TALK
ABOUT IT
HE'S THE AUTHOR OF "NO EXIT FROM
PAKISTAN."
HE IS JOINING US FRO
WASHINGTON
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S
STRIKING TO ME IS SOMETHING THAT
PAKISTAN OR THE SECRET SERVICE
THERE HAD A DEBT TO PROTEC
OSAMA BIN LADEN.
>> SHE TALKED ABOUT HOW THER
WAS ONE, IF NOT SEVERAL, MEMBERS
OF THE PAKISTANI INTELLIGENC
SERVICE, THE ISI, WHO WERE
ASSIGNED TO BASICALLY WATCH BI
LADEN, PRESUMABLY TO HELP HIDE
HIM AND THAT THESE INDIVIDUALS
SHE BELIEVES, REPORTED DIRECTL
TO THE SENIOR MOST MEMBERS OF HE
PAKISTANI INTELLIGENCE AND
MILITARY SERVICES.
SHE GETS THIS FROM A
CONVERSATION THAT SHE SAYS SHE
HAD WITH SENIOR PAKISTAN
OFFICER.
>> EXPLAIN HOW THE ISI WORKS
IS IT LIKE THE FBI VERSUS TH
SHERIFFS DEPARTMENT OR HOW ARE
THEY INTEGRATED IN PAKISTANI
SOCIETY.
>> THE ISI IS LIKE A COMBINATION
OF OUR FBI AND CIA
AND BEYOND THAT, OUR DIA O
DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY.
ALL TOGETHER
IT REPORTS THROUGH A MILITAR
CHAIN.
TECHNICALLY OF COURSE TH
PAKISTANI MILITARY REPORTS T
THE CIVILIANS.
ISI HAS BEEN VERY POWERFUL FOR
DECADES.
IT'S OPERATED BOTH IN FOREIG
AFFAIRS, THAT IS IN PAKISTAN'S
BUSINESS IN AFGHANISTAN OR INDIA
OR ELSE WHERE BUT ALSO AT HOME
AND ACCUSED OF MANIPULATIN
POLITICS INSIDE PAKISTAN ITSELF.
POWERFUL, SECRETIVE, A LOT O
RESOURCES AND OFTEN TIME
REPORTING TO THE MOST POWERFUL
INDIVIDUALS IN THE COUNTRY
THOSE BEING MILITARY OFFICER A
THINK TOP OF THE ARMY.
>> THAT SAID, WOULD THE TOP OF
THE ARMY OR GOVERNMENT HAV
KNOWN ABOUT THIS PROGRAM T
PROTECT BIN LADEN?
>> WELL, THAT'S WHAT CARLISLE IS
SAYING ON THE BASIS OF AT LEAS
THIS CONVERSATION THAT SHE HAD
WITH THE PAKISTANI OFFICIA
WHO'S UNNAMED AND ON THE BASIS
OF MORE CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
IT IS REALLY HARD TO BELIEVE
THAT SOMEBODY AS SIGNIFICANT A
BIN LADEN COULD BE HIDDEN FO
SIX YEARS IN WHAT SEEMS TO BE
SAFE HOUSE, NOT FAR FROM ONE O
PAKISTAN'S MAJOR MILITAR
ACADEMIES WITHOUT SOMEBODY
KNOWING ABOUT IT
SHE WORKS OFF OF THAT, SOM
OTHER CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.
THAT IS SHE TRIED TO HAV
CONVERSATIONS WITH U.S
OFFICIALS.
SOME OF WHOM SEEM TO SUGGEST
THEY WEREN'T ALL THAT SURPRISE
BY WHAT SHE HEARD.
SHE DIDN'T GET CONFIRMATION ON
THE U.S. SIDE.
SOME ARE QUESTIONING AS TO
WHETHER A SINGLE PAKISTANI
UNNAMED SOURCE QUALIFIES A
ENOUGH FOR THIS BLOCKBUSTE
STORY.
>> SHE ALSO PAINTS A PICTURE O
A COUNTRY DIVIDED IN ITS
LOYALTIES.
ONE ON THE ONE HAND TRYING T
FIGHT THE TALIBAN AND ON THE
OTHER TRYING TO AID PORTIONS O
THE TALIBAN OR AL QAEDA.
>> YEAH, THAT'S WHAT'S CONFUSING
ABOUT A LOT OF THIS.
OF COURSE, IF THE PAKISTAN
STATE WERE PROTECTING OSAMA BI
LADEN AND AIDING AL QAEDA, THA
MAY BE, BUT AT THE SAME TIME THE
PAKISTANI STATE HAS BEEN A
TARGET OF AL QAEDA
U.S. OFFICIALS BELIEVE THA
PRESIDENT MUSHARRAF, WHO'S I
POWER MUCH OF THE TIME AFTER
9/11, WAS DIRECTLY ATTACKE
ALLOCATE TACHLT OTHER CIVILIAN
OFFICIALS HAVE BEEN ATTACKED B
AL QAEDA
SO THERE ARE LAYERS OF
COMPLEXITY HERE.
ONE OF THE DEEP PROBLEM S THAT
WE CERTAINLY HAVE WITH PAKISTA
IS IT SEEMS THE PAKISTAN
MILITARY AND INTELLIGENCE HAVE
TRIED TO DIVIDE UP THEIR
ENEMIES.
CLEARLY AND OTHERS TRY TO MAKE
DEALS WITH, LOOK THE OTHER WAY
ON OR EVEN COLLUDE
THAT IS WHAT THE STORY IS LINKED
TO AT ITS ROUTE.
>> DAN MARKY JOINING US FROM
WASHINGTON
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU
♪♪
>> FOR DECADES NOW RURAL
COMMUNITIES IN THE VAST GREA
PLAINS OF THE UNITED STATES HAVE
EXPERIENCED A DRAMATIC
POPULATION DECLINE
NOW KANSAS IS OFFERING
INCENTIVES TO YOUNG PEOPLE T
MOVE THERE IN AN EFFORT TO
BREATHE NEW LIFE IN TO
STRUGGLING RURAL COUNTIES.
WE HAVE THIS REPORT FROM
NORTHWESTERN KANSAS.
>> TRAVELING THIS STRETCH OF
HIGHWAY 36 IN RURAL NORTHWES
KANSAS IN THE DEAD OF WINTER
IT'S VERY QUIET.
THIS IS THE ROAD THAT LEADS TO
THE TOWN OF PHILLIPSBURG
THE POPULATION, JUST OVER 2500
THERE'S ONLY ONE SET OF STOP
LIGHTS, ONE MOVIE THEATER AN
SEVERAL RESTAURANTS.
AMBER AND PATRICK PATTERSON GREW
UP HERE.
>> EVERYBODY KNOWS EVERYBODY
EVERYBODY HELPS OUT EVERYBODY.
IT'S NICE.
>> Reporter: THE PATTERSONS WERE
HIGH SCHOOL SWEETHEARTS WASN'T
TO COLLEGE IN HAYES, KANSAS, A
CITY OF 20,000 PEOPLE AN HOU
AWAY
LIKE MOST YOUNG PEOPLE AROUN
HERE, THEY DIDN'T THINK THEY
WOULD BE BACK GIVEN THE LACK O
OPPORTUNITIES.
>> THE JOB MARKET IS ONE OF TH
THINGS THAT MADE IT HARDEST TO
COME BACK LOT OF JOBS HERE ARE
SET.
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN DOING THEIR JOB
A LONG TIME AND WE DIDN'T THIN
THERE WOULD BE ANY AVAILABLE T
COME BACK.
>> Reporter: IN FACT JOBS AN
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN DISAPPEARIN
FROM RURAL KANSAS AND THE GREA
PLAINS THE LAST 80 YEARS
IT STARTED IN THE 1930s DURING
THE DUST BOWL AND ACCELERATE
WITH THE MECHANICATION
>> I WAS RAISED IN RURAL KANSA
I HAVE SEEN IT DECLINE 50 YEARS.
>> SAM BROWNBACK IS TH
REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR OF KANSAS.
HE VOWED TO TAKE ACTION AFTE
THE MOST RECENT CENSUS IN WHIC
MOST COUNTIES REPORTED A LOSS TO
THEIR POPULATION
BROWNBACK'S IDEA WAS TO CREATE
SOMETHING LIKE A NEW HOMESTEAD
ACT, LIKE THE ONE THAT LURED
PEOPLE TO RURAL AREAS IN THE
LATE 19th CENTURY WITH THE
PROMISE OF FREE LAND
>> I THINK THERE'S SOMETHING
WORTH PRESERVING
IT'S ABOUT KNOWING THE PERSON.
ABOUT FORMING A COMMUNITY.
WE ALREADY HAVE THAT
PHILLIPSBURG, KANSAS, PARKER
KANSAS
YOU KNOW NOT ONLY THE PERSON
YOU KNOW THEIR PARENTS AND MAYBE
THEIR GRANDPARENTS
WHY DESTROY IT
THIS IS A BEAUTIFUL COMMUNITY.
WE JUST NEED TO GIVE IT SOME
ECONOMIC ACTIVITY.
>> Reporter: HIS IDEA WAS TO
CREATE WHAT ARE CALLED RURAL
OPPORTUNITY ZONES.
IN 2011, THE STATE LEGISLATURE
OVERWHELMINGLY APPROVED TH
PLAN
THE ROZ PROGRAM WORKS LIKE THIS,
IF YOU ARE A COLLEGE GRAD WITH
STUDENT LOAN DEBT, YOU CAN GET
UP TO $15,000 OVER FIVE YEAR
JUST TO MOVE TO A DESIGNATED
RURAL COUNTY IN KANSAS THAT'
EXPERIENCED A LOSS I
POPULATION
THOSE COMING FROM OUTSIDE OF
KANSAS WON'T PAY STATE INCOM
TAXES.
>> THERE'S AN OLD WESTER
STAYING THAT IF YOU WEAR OUT A
PAIR OF OLD BOOTS LIVING HER
YOU WILL LIVE HERE THE REST OF
YOUR LIFE.
FIVE YEARS YOU WEAR OUT A PAIR
OF BOOTS AND I THINK WE WILL
HAVE A GREAT CHANCE OF GETTING
PEOPLE, AND NOT ONLY GETTING
PEOPLE BUT I THINK WE WILL HAV
PEOPLE COMING HOME THAT HAVE
WANTED TO COME BACK FOR SOME
PERIOD OF TIME
>> Reporter: TO HELP WITH THEI
STUDENT LOANS IS WHAT BROUGH
THE PATTERSONS BACK IN 2012.
BETWEEN THE TWO OF THEM THEY
OWED $46,000 AFTER GRADUATIN
FROM FORT HAYES STAT
UNIVERSITY
>> WITHOUT ROZ, I DON'T KNOW I
WE WOULD BE HERE
WE WERE QUESTIONING IF WE COUL
MAKE IT WORK
WITH OUR STUDENT LOAN AND RENT
PAYMENT.
>> WE FELT IT WAS A GAMBLE T
COME BACK.
>> IT MADE IT THAT MUCH EASIER
>> Reporter: PATRICK STARTED
WORKING ODD JOBS UNTIL HE LANDED
A POSITION AT A CREDIT UNION AND
AMBER FOUND WORK IN CUSTOMER
RELATIONS AT A PHARMACY IN TOWN.
THE STATE AND COUNTIES SPLIT THE
COST OF STUDENT LOAN
REIMBURSEMENT FOR PEOPLE LIK
THE PATTERSONS
LAST YEAR THE COST OF TH
PROGRAM WAS $830,000
>> YOU BUILT A REPUTATION AS A
CONSERVATIVE REPUBLICAN IN THE
SENATE AND NOW AS A GOMPL YO
ARE NOT KNOWN FOR BIG GOVERNMENT
PROGRAMS
DOESN'T SOMETHING LIKE THIS FL
IN THE FACE OF THE PRINCIPAL
THAT YOU ESPOUSE
>> I'M A GROWTH GUY.
IT'S ABOUT CREATIN
OPPORTUNITIES FOR PEOPLE
THEY MAY DECIDE TO TAKE THEM
THEY MAY NOT BUT IT IS ABOUT
GROWTH AND CREATIN
OPPORTUNITIES THAT IS CONSISTENT
WITH WHAT I HAVE TRIED TO BE
ABOUT.
>> Reporter: THE GOVERNOR ADMITS
THE PLAN IS A GAMBLE
NO GUARANTEE OR REQUIREMENT THAT
PEOPLE TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE
ROZ PROGRAM WILL STAY IN THESE
RURAL PARTS.
TAKE 27-YEAR-OLD KELLAN ADAMS.
HE MOVED TO LOGAN IN PHILLIP
COUNTY SEVEN MONTHS AGO FROM A
BIGGER CITY IN KANSAS.
ADAM LIVES HERE WITH HIS GOICH
HE'S RECEIVING $3,000 A YEAR FOR
THE NEXT FIVE YEARS FROM THE
STATE AND COUNTY
HE TOLD US EVEN BEFORE H
APPLIED TO THE ROZ PROGRAM H
HAD ACCEPTED A JOB AS PRINCIPA
OF THE TOWN'S ONLY SCHOOL BUT HE
DOESN'T SEE HIMSELF STAYIN
HERE
>> THE REASON WHY IS I DON'T
WANT TO TAKE MY CURREN
SUPERINTENDENT'S JOB
HE AND I HAVE AGREED THAT AT
THIS TIME WOULD PROBABLY BE IN
OUR INTEREST THAT I PURSUE
ANOTHER POSITION ELSEWHERE
>> THE OPPORTUNITIES ARE LIMITED
HERE
>> THEY ARE.
>> Reporter: ADAM SAYS HE PLAN
TO MOVE ELSEWHERE IN KANSAS.
BUT OTHERS MAY LEAVE THE STATE
>> YOU ARE OFFERING PEOPLE, YO
KNOW, UP TO $15,000 TO HELP WITH
THEIR STUDENT DECHLT WHAT IF
THESE PEOPLE COME IN TO THES
AREAS AND THEY ARE LIKE GREA
OPPORTUNITY.
I WAS GOING TO MOVE HERE ANY WAY
BUT LET ME TAKE ADVANTAGE OF
THIS AND THEN I WILL LEAVE THE
STATE.
>> YOU COULD HAVE SOME OF THAT
TAKING PLACE
THERE PROBABLY WILL BE SOME OF
IT
YOU CAN SEE WHERE WE WERE AN
SAYING, ALL RIGHT.
WE CAN CHOOSE TO DO NOTHING.
THAT'S A LEGITIMATE POLICY
CHOICE
WE WERE 28th MOST POPULOUS STATE
IN THE '70s AND 33rd NOW
HEADING TO 35 IF WE DON'T BREA
THE TREND LINE
I DON'T KNOW ANY TEAM OR
BUSINESS THAT HIRES A COACH OR
LEADER TO MANAGE SLOWER DECLINE.
JUST MANAGE THE DECLIN
COMFORTABLY.
YOU BRING THEM IN TO CHANG
THINGS
>> SO FAR, MORE THAN 650 PEOPL
ARE ENROLLED IN THE PROGRAM.
36 OF WHOM ARE LIVING IN
PHILLIPS COUNTY, WHICH INCLUDE
PHILLIPSBURG AND LOW GACHBL SOME
QUESTION THE LONG-TERM
INITIATIVE LIKE THIS
>> IT MAY HELP A FEW PEOPLE OR
COMMUNITIES IN A SMALL WAY, BU
THEN IT WILL NOT TURN BACK THE
POPULATION
>> Reporter: LASLO SPECIALIZES
IN RURAL POPULATION TRENDS
HE SAYS HE DOUBTS YOUNG PEOPLE
WILL MOVE TO RURAL COUNTIES IN
LARGE NUMBERS BECAUSE SCORE JOBS
ARE SCARCE AND BECAUSE THESE
AREAS LACK CONVENIENCES THAT CAN
BE FOUND IN LARGER TOWNS
HE SHOWED ME THE PROJECTIONS FOR
PHILLIPS COUNTY.
>> THE POPULATION HAS BEEN GOING
DOWN SINCE THE 1900 CENSUS
ACCORDING TO THE PROJECTIONS O
THE CENSUS BUREAU WE WILL SE
THE SAME POPULATION DECLINE.
>> Reporter: WHEN YOU SPEAK TO
PEOPLE INVOLVED IN THI
INITIATIVE, THEY SAY WE HAVE HAD
PEOPLE MOVE BACK HERE.
THEY ARE PUTTING DOWN ROOTS.
THEY ARE STARTING FAMILIES, THEY
ARE OPENING BUSINESS HERE AN
THERE.
ISN'T THAT WORTH SOMETHING
>> IT IS WORTH SOMETHING
IT IS VERY IMPORTANT FOR A PLACE
TO SHOW SOME SIGNS OF VITALITY
TO SHOW OTHERS THIS IS NOT A
PLACE THAT WILL GO AWAY ANYTIM
SOON AND REALLY IT DOES NOT WORK
AS MUCH FOR OTHERS WHO MAY MOV
THERE, BUT IT DOES WORK ON
PEOPLE WHO ARE THINKING OF
MOVING AWAY.
IN THAT SENSE, IT MAY HELP
RETAINING THE POPULATION THAT IS
STILL THERE.
>> GOOD MORNING.
>> KELLAN ADAMS' DECISION TO
EVENTUALLY LEAVE IS BASE
SQUARELY ON WHERE THE JOBS ARE
>> IT HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH
LOGAN OR THE SCHOOL OR ANYTHIN
ELSE
I'M LOOKING FOR A POSITION THA
WOULD BE OBVIOUSLY IN TH
INTEREST OF MY FAMILY AND I HAVE
BIG DREAMS AND GOALS
I WANT TO BE ABLE TO ACHIEVE
THOSE.
>> Reporter: THE PATTERSONS, O
THE OTHER HAND, HAVE LONG-TERM
PLANS TO STAY PUT.
THE SUCCESS OF THE ROZ PROGRAM
WILL LIKELY HINGE ON BRINGIN
MORE PEOPLE LIKE THEM TO RURAL
KANSAS
>>> HE WHO IS LIVING IN RURA
COMMUNITIES AND FIND OUT WHERE
AMERICANS ARE MOVING
VISIT NEWSHOUR@PBS.ORG
>>> A COURT RULING THAT COUL
AFFECT VOTER I.D. LAWS
A FEDERAL JUDGE RULED THAT
KANSAS AND ARIZONA CAN ASK FOR
MORE PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP FROM
VOTERS
FOR MORE WE ARE JOINED BY ALLE
GOMEZ WHO COVERS IMMIGRATION FOR
"USA TODAY."
THIS IS STATE AND FEDERA
ELECTIONS.
WHAT DOES THE RULING MEAN?
>> IF YOU REGISTER TO VOTE I
KANSAS OR ARIZONA AND YOU SIGN
UP WITH A FEDERAL REGISTRATION
FORM, THE FEDS HAVE TO AMEND
THEIR FORM REQUIRE THE
ADDITIONAL PROOF OF CITIZENSHI
THOSE STATES REQUIRE
THIS HAS BEEN A LONG BATTLE WE
HAVE BEEN HAVING BETWEEN STATE
AND FEDERAL GOVERNMENTS.
THE STATES WANT TO REQUIRE MOR
PROOF OF CITIZENSHIP, PASSPORT
UX BIRTH CERTIFICATE, SOMETHIN
LIKE THAT.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ALL THE
REQUIRE IS YOU SIGN AND ATTEST
THAT YOU ARE A CITIZEN
THAT'S THE PROBLEM WE AR
HAVING
KANSAS AND ARIZONA ARE TRYING TO
GET THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT T
CHANGE THEIR VOTER REGISTRATIO
FORMS TO REFLECT ADDITIONA
REQUIREMENTS IN THOSE STATES
>> WHAT ABOUT OTHER STATES
ARE THEY WATCHING THIS
>> ABSOLUTELY.
GEORGIA AN ALABAMA HAVE PASSED
SIMILAR LAWS AND MAY JUMP ON T
THIS QUICKLY
IT IS A LITTLE LATE FI OTHER
STATES TO PASS SIMILAR LAWS THIS
YEAR BUT PROPONENTS SAY TH
RULING, IF IT STANDS, WILL OPE
THE DOOR FOR MORE STATES T
REQUIRE MORE PROOF O
CITIZENSHIP ONCE PEOPLE AR
SIGNING UP TO VOTE
>> NONE OF IT HAPPENS IN A
POLITICAL VACUUM
SOM ONE SIDE SAY IT IS
MINIMIZING VOTER FRAUD
HOW DOES IT PLAY OUT NATIONALLY.
>> THE SIMPLE CASE TO LOOK AT IS
KANSAS
THAT'S THE BEST EXAMPLE.
YOU HAVE 15,000 VOTE
REGISTRATION FORMS THAT ARE HELD
UP AS THEY ARE CHECKIN
ADDITIONAL CITIZENSHIP
DOCUMENTATION THEY HAV
PROVIDED
ON THE OTHER HAND, CRITICS SAY
IT IS ONLY A HANDFUL OF CASE
EVER SHOWN THAT SOMEBODY HAS
FALSIFIED THEIR CITIZENSHIP.
SO YOU ARE HOLDING UP 15,000
PEOPLE ON THE ACCOUNT OF A SMALL
NUMBER OF CASE CANS THAT THERE
COULD BE VOTER FRAUD IN THAT
CASE
YOU EXTRAPOLATE THAT TO MORE
STATES
IF MORE STATES ARE PASSING THESE
LAWS MORE PEOPLE COULD B
AFFECTED
>> IS THIS STATE VERSUS FEDERA
RIGHTS
>> THIS FOLLOWS WHAT WE HAVE
BEEN SEEING WITH IMMIGRATION
ENFORCEMENT FOR EXAMPLE.
ARIZONA STARTED IN 2010 PASSIN
A BILL THAT ALLOWED STAT
OFFICERS TO ENFORCE IMMIGRATIO
LAWS MORE STRINGENTLY.
THAT ENDED UP IN THE U.S
SUPREME COURT.
THE SUPREME COURT IN THAT CASE
RULED THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT I
THE ONE THAT HAS ULTIMATE -- THE
ULTIMATE POWER TO ENFORC
IMMIGRATION LAWS AND THAT TH
STATES HAVE TO DEFER TO TH
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON AS PART
OF A BROADER FIGHT N. THIS VOTER
REGISTRATION CASE, FOR EXAMPLE
THERE IS ANOTHER RULING BY THE
U.S. SUPREME COURT LAST YEAR
WHERE THE SUPREME COURT RULED IT
IS THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT THAT
HAS AUTHORITY.
IN THIS CASE, THESE STATES
ARIZONA IN PARTICULAR WA
REQUIRED TO ACCEPT RERL VOTE
REGISTRATION FORMS THAT DID NO
INCLUDE THE ADDITIONAL VOTER
IDENTIFICATION
THIS IS ANOTHER STEP IN TH
BATTLE
>> THIS IS LIKELY TO BE APPEAL
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH
>> THANK YOU
♪♪
>>> THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
SUNDAY
>>> AND NOW OUR OCCASIONAL
FEATURE, THE CONNECTION.
AS WE REPORTED YESTERDAY, FIRS
LADY GAVE A SPEECH IN BEIJIN
WHERE SHE TALKED ABOUT, AMON
OTHER THINGS, THE VALUE OF FRE
SPEECH, ESPECIALLY FREE SPEECH
ON-LINE.
>> COUNTRIES ARE STRONGER AN
MORE PROSPEROUS WHEN THE VOICE
AND OPINIONS OF ALL OF THEIR
CITIZENS CAN BE HEARD.
>> THE COMMENTS WERE NOTABLE
BECAUSE SHE MADE THEM IN CHINA
WHERE THEY BLOCK SITES LIK
FACEBOOK, YOU TUBE AND TWITTER
LIKE IRAN DOES
EARLIER THIS WEEK TURKEY BECAM
THE LATEST TO CONTROL WHAT ITS
CITIZENS SEE AND HEAR ON-LINE.
THE PRIME MINISTER THREATENED TO
QUOTE WIPE OUT TWITTER AND TOO
STEPS TO BLOCK IT.
HE WAS FACING A BARRAGE OF
CORRUPTION CHARGES MANY SPREAD
ACROSS SOCIAL MEDIA SERVICES AND
AMPLIFIED BUT TWIT EVERY LIK
THE REST OF THE INTERNET DOESN'T
GET WIPED OUT EASILY
THEY SENT OUT A MESSAGE RELAYE
ACROSS THE WEB
SOME SHOWED INSTRUCTIONS HOW T
REDIRECT YOUR COMPUTER AROUN
THE SENSORS.
YESTERDAY, I TALKED TO A MAN I
ISTANBUL
THIS 16-YEAR-OLD IS ALREADY TECH
SAVVY ENOUGH TO USE A VPN THAT
LETS YOUR COMPUTER TO PRETEND TO
BE SOMEWHERE ELSE.
>> IT CHANGES YOUR VIRTUAL
LOCATION
>> YOUR COMPUTER IS PRETENDING
TO BE IN VIRGINIA WHERE TWITTE
WORKS JUST FINE?
>> YES
>> THIS HAS BEEN BUILT IN TO THE
INTERNET
IT IS A DECENTRALIZE
FREE-RANGING GLOBAL FORU
CREATING A GAME OF WACK-A-MOLE
EVERY TIME A GOVERNMENT TRIES TO
SUPPRESS IT POPS UP IN SEVERAL
OTHER PLACES
LETTING VOICES OF DISSENT BE
HEARD.
YOU CAN SEE THE ENTIRE INTERVIEW
AT NEWSHOUR@PBS.ORG.
>>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ON-LINE
TOMORROW ON THE NEWSHOUR
SENIOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT CONTINUES HE
REPORTING FROM UKRAINE MAKIN
HER WAY WEST TO THE CAPITA
KIEV
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
THANK YOU FOR WATCHING